=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::PromptIfStale - Check at build/release time if modules are out of date

=head1 VERSION

version 0.059

=head1 SYNOPSIS

In your F<dist.ini>:

    [PromptIfStale]
    phase = build
    module = Dist::Zilla
    module = Dist::Zilla::PluginBundle::Author::ME

or:

    [PromptIfStale]
    check_all_plugins = 1

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<[PromptIfStale]> is a C<BeforeBuild> or C<BeforeRelease> plugin that compares the
locally-installed version of a module(s) with the latest indexed version,
prompting to abort the build process if a discrepancy is found.

Note that there is no effect on the built distribution -- all actions are taken at
build time.

=head1 CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

=head2 C<phase>

Indicates whether the checks are performed at I<build> or I<release> time
(defaults to I<release>).

(Remember that you can use different settings for different phases by employing
this plugin twice, with different names.)

=head2 C<module>

The name of a module to check for. Can be provided more than once.

=head2 C<check_authordeps>

=for stopwords authordeps

A boolean, defaulting to false, indicating that all authordeps in F<dist.ini>
(like what is done by C<< dzil authordeps >>) should be checked.

As long as this option is not explicitly set to false, a check is always made
for authordeps being installed (but the indexed version is not checked). This
serves as a fast way to guard against a build blowing up later through the
inadvertent lack of fulfillment of an explicit C<< ; authordep >> declaration.

=head2 C<check_all_plugins>

A boolean, defaulting to false, indicating that all plugins being used to
build this distribution should be checked.

=head2 C<check_all_prereqs>

A boolean, defaulting to false, indicating that all prerequisites in the
distribution metadata should be checked. The modules are a merged list taken
from all phases (C<configure>, C<build>, C<runtime>, C<test> and C<develop>) ,
and the C<requires>, C<recommends> and C<suggests> types.

=head2 C<skip>

The name of a module to exempt from checking. Can be provided more than once.

=head2 C<fatal>

A boolean, defaulting to false, indicating that missing prereqs will result in
an immediate abort of the build/release process, without prompting.

=head2 C<index_base_url>

=for stopwords darkpan

When provided, uses this base URL to fetch F<02packages.details.txt.gz>
instead of the default C<http://www.cpan.org>.  Use this when your
distribution uses prerequisites found only in your darkpan-like server.

You can also set this temporary from the command line by setting the
C<CPAN_INDEX_BASE_URL> environment variable.

=head2 C<run_under_travis>

It is possible to detect when a build is being run via L<Travis Continuous Integration|https://travis-ci.org/>.
Since version 0.035, Travis builds act like other non-interactive builds, where missing modules result in a warning
instead of a prompt. As of version 0.050, stale checks are only performed for the build phase on Travis builds when
C<run_under_travis> is set to a true value.

The default value is false.

=for Pod::Coverage mvp_multivalue_args mvp_aliases before_build after_build before_release

=head1 METHODS

=head2 stale_modules

Given a list of modules to check, returns

=over 4

=item *

a list reference of modules that are stale (not installed or the version is not at least the latest indexed version

=item *

a list reference of error messages describing the issues found

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

the L<[EnsureNotStale]|Dist::Zilla::Plugin::EnsureNotStale> plugin in this distribution

=item *

the L<dzil stale|Dist::Zilla::App::Command::stale> command in this distribution

=item *

L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Prereqs::MatchInstalled>, L<Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Prereqs::MatchInstalled::All>

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs may be submitted through L<the RT bug tracker|https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Dist-Zilla-Plugin-PromptIfStale>
(or L<bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-PromptIfStale@rt.cpan.org|mailto:bug-Dist-Zilla-Plugin-PromptIfStale@rt.cpan.org>).

There is also a mailing list available for users of this distribution, at
L<http://dzil.org/#mailing-list>.

There is also an irc channel available for users of this distribution, at
L<C<#distzilla> on C<irc.perl.org>|irc://irc.perl.org/#distzilla>.

I am also usually active on irc, as 'ether' at C<irc.perl.org> and C<irc.libera.chat>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords David Golden Dave Rolsky Olivier Mengué

=over 4

=item *

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=item *

Dave Rolsky <autarch@urth.org>

=item *

Olivier Mengué <dolmen@cpan.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Karen Etheridge.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
